E175 CQ Oral, Cycle B (odd years)
Rev 7/20/2026
LIMITATIONS

1. What is the airplane Maximum Landing Weight?
A: 75,177lbs

2. What is required in the event of a landing below -40&deg;C?
A: AML entry

3. What is the Minimum Battery Temperature?
A: -20C

4. What is the maximum operating altitude?
A: FL410

5. What is the maximum Altitude for Flap Extension?
A: 20,000 MSL

6. What is the maximum speed for Landing Gear Operation?
A: 250 KIAS

7. What is the maximum speed to open the Direct Vision Windows?
A: 160 KIAS

8. What are the Turbulent Air Penetration target speeds?
A: 250 KIAS below 10,000 MSL
270 KIAS or 0.76M above 10,000' MSL

9. What are the flap extended speeds?
A: Flaps 1 - 230 KIAS
Flaps 2 - 215 KIAS
Flaps 3 - 200 KIAS
Flaps 4 - 180 KIAS
Flaps 5 - 180 KIAS
Flaps Full - 165 KIAS

10. What is the Max Tire Groundspeed?
A: 195 KIAS

11. What is the maximum tailwind takeoff and landing component?
A: 15 knots

12. What is the max crosswind for Dry runway?
A: 38 knots

13. What is the procedure for takeoff roll and thrust settings for a normal takeoff with tailwind over 10 kts up to 15 kts?
A: Line up on runway (AT off) adjust thrust to 60% N1. When engines stabilized at 60% release brakes and advance thrust levers to TOGA detent

14. What is the max fuel imbalance?
A: 794 lbs.

15. What is the minimum fuel tank temperature?
A: -37&deg;C

16. Can we takeoff with the x-feed selector on?
A: No

17. Minimum oil temperature for engine start?
A: -40&deg;C

18. What is the maximum cabin differential pressure?
A: 8.4 psi

19. What is the maximum cabin overpressure?
A: 8.8 psi

20. What is the maximum negative cabin pressure?
A: -0.5 psi

21. What is the maximum differential cabin pressure for takeoff / landing?
A: 0.2 psi

22. When does engine anti-ice need to be selected on the T.O. data set menu?
A: 5&deg;C -10&deg;C and: visible moisture, up to 1700 AFE
Ground operations with snow, ice, standing water/slush

23. When does T.O. data set menu need to be set to ALL?
A: Less than 5&deg;C: visible moisture, up to 1700 AFE
Ground operations with snow, ice, standing water/slush

24. What is the maximum airspeed for windshield wiper operation?
A: 250 KIAS

25. What is the minimum altitude for autopilot engagement after takeoff?
A: 400 AFE

26. What is the minimum autopilot engagement height on a missed approach?
A: 400 AFE

27. What is the minimum altitude for autopilot use on approach? (not autoland)
A: 50 AFE

28. What are the Autoland wind limitations?
A: Headwind - 25 knots
Tailwind - 10 knots
Crosswind - 15 knots

29. What flap setting is required for Cat II and Autoland?
A: Flaps 5

30. What is the minimum Hydraulic system reservoir temperature?
A: -18&deg;C

31. What shall you accomplish if you find that the Hyd System reservoir temp.  is below -18&deg;C
A: Hydraulic Warmup Checklist AOM Vol 13.4.9

32. What do you do after you complete a memory procedure?
A: QRH checklist of the same name

33. What do you do after you complete a checklist on the IAC?
A: QRH checklist of the same name

MEMORY PROCEDURES

34. Engine Abnormal Start
A: Affected Engine start/stop selector ... Stop

35. Pitch Trim Runaway
A: A/P DISC button ... Press and Hold
Pitch trims systems 1&2 cutout buttons ... In

36. Roll/Yaw Trim Runaway
A: A/P DISC button ... Press and Hold

37. Steering Runaway
A: Steering DISC Switch ... Press

38. Dual Engine Failure
A: Airspeed ... 250 KIAS min
RAT MANUAL DEPLOY LEVER ... Pull

39. Jammed Control Column (Pitch)
A: ELEVATOR DISCONNECT Handle ... Pull

40. Jammed Control Wheel (Roll)
A: AILERON DISCONNECT Handle ... Pull

41. Oxygen Mask Donning
A: Remove Headset
Oxygen Mask ... Don
Crew Communications ... Establish

42.CABIN ALT HI
A: Crew Oxygen Masks ... Don
Crew communication ... Establish
Altitude ... 10,0000 ft, or MEA whichever is higher
Thrust Levers ... IDLE
Speed Brake ... Full Open
Airspeed ... Max/Appropriate
Transponder ... 7700
ATC ... Notify

43.Smoke Evacuation Memory Procedure
A: Crew Oxygen Masks ... Don, EMER
Crew Communication ... Establish
Pressurization DUMP button ... Push In

44. EGPWS Warning Response
A: Pilot Flying:
- Disengage Autopilot.
- Simultaneously advance thrust levers to MAX and pitch to 20&deg; or PLI, whichever is lower.
- Maintain the present airplane configuration (gear/flaps) until terrain separation is achieved.
- Climb to the MSA or MORA.
- Clear of terrain, resume level flight.
- Engage Autopilot.
- Resume normal speed.
- Communicate intensions to ATC.
Pilot Monitoring:
- Turn FSTN BELTS ON
- Scan for visual reference
- Call out the Radio Altimeter indication
- Read MFD Terrain indications to:
-- check the obstacle height
-- guide PF for the best course of action
-- indicate when obstacle(s) have been cleared

45. Windshear Escape Maneuver
A: Pilot First Recognizing Windshear, Call "Windshear"
Pilot Flying:
- Thrust Levers ... MAX
- TOGA button ... Push
- Flight Director Escape Guidance Cue ... Follow until 1500 AGL and terrain clearance assured.
- (if no EGPWS Windshear announcement Pitch to 20 degrees or PLI whichever is lower)
Pilot Monitoring:
- Assure MAX Thrust set
- Monitor Vertical Speed and radar altimeter
- Advise ATC of windshear encounter

46. Stall Recovery
A: Announce: "Stall" (Pilot first noticing the stall situation/indication)
Pilot Flying:
- Disengage Autothrottle.
- Apply nose down and level the wings until out of stall.
- Apply thrust as required.
- Accelerate the airplane to a safe speed.
- Retract speed brakes.
- After recovery, return to the normal flight path.
Pilot Monitoring:
- Check Auto Throttle and Autopilot disengaged.
- Monitor altitude and speed.
- Perform any necessary callout(s).
- Reconfigure the airplane as commanded.

AIRCRAFT GENERAL

47. What is the wing span?
A: 93' 11"

48. What is the minimum pavement width to make a 180&deg; turn?
A: 59' 2"

49. What is the maximum nosewheel steering angle when using the handwheel steering?
A: 76&deg; (below 10 knots)

50. How long will the Emergency Lights be powered?
A: 10 minutes

51. Can the Flight Attendants turn on the Emergency Lights?
A: Yes, from the FA control panel

52. What is the Flightdeck door test and when do you accomplish it?
A: Originating Flow. Close the flightdeck door, push the test button (with the door unlocked) listen for the chimes, look for the lights, and hear the door lock and unlock.  Then lock and unlock the door to make sure it functions correctly.

53. If the electric rudder pedal adjustment is inoperative, can the rudder pedals be adjusted?
A: Yes, but it's a MTX procedure

54. When will the unlock button on the flight deck door control panel flash?
A: When the EMERG ENTRY push button on the passenger cabin control panel is pushed.

55. What happens when you press the inhibit button on the flight deck door control?
A: It inhibits the EMERG ENTRY command for 500 sec (8 min 20 sec)

56. Which PA system has priority over the other, flight deck or cabin?
A: Flight Deck

57. Is the Captain required to contact Dispatch if the takeoff is rejected after the takeoff clearance is received?
A: Yes

AMS PNEUMATIC, AIR CONDITIONING, PRESSURIZATION

58. What is bleed air used for?
A: Environmental control system (ECS)
   Engine start
   Engine/wing anti-ice
   Water pressurization.

59. Can the Engine Bleeds and the APU Bleed be used at the same time?
A: No

60. When is the Emergency Ram Air Ventilation Valve open?
A: When both packs are commanded OFF or failed OFF and the altitude is less than 25,000’

61. When is the Pressurization Dump function used?
A: Emergency Evacuation
   Smoke Evacuation
   Fast cabin depressurization

62. What is the Cabin Pressure Controller ABORT mode?
A: Cabin pressurization mode that automatically detects and handles a return to the departure airport.
- Actived when:
-- On Departure, if the aircraft stops climbing and immediately starts descending (no CRZ mode activated), and
-- Pressure altitude is less than 10,000’ MSL or 5000’AFE.
- Operation:
-- The cabin altitude is scheduled back to the takeoff altitude, and
-- the climb mode is used in reverse direction.

63. What does the CPCS system do when the DUMP button is pressed?
A: Turns off the packs and recirculation fans.
Commands the outflow valve to raise the cabin at 2000’/min up to 12,400’
At 12,400’ the outflow valve is closed.

AUTOMATIC FLIGHT

64. What does pressing the BANK Button on the Guidance Panel do?
A: Enables and disables bank angle limit of 17 degrees used by the heading mode.

65. What does pressing the APP button on the Guidance Panel do?
A: Activates and deactivates the mode for interception of an ILS
FMA lateral mode displays LOC
FMA vertical mode displays GS.
Also activates LNAV/GP on a FMS Approach.

66. What does FPA stand for?
A: Flight Path Angle

67. What does FPA do?
A: Creates a manually selected vertical angle.

68. How can you determine FPA selection?
A: Blue dashed reference line displayed on PFD.

69. Under what conditions will the Autopilot disengage?
A: AP button on the guidance panel or on the Yoke is pushed
Either manual pitch trim switch is actuated
Either stick shaker is actuated
Windshear guidance is activated
Direct Mode
Internal failure

70. When is the Yaw Damper automatically engaged?
A: After power up of either Hydraulic system 1 or 3

71. What do the different Flight Mode Annunciation colors signify?
A: Magenta = FMS commanded active/engaged mode
Green = Non-FMS commanded active/engaged mode
White = Armed mode
Amber = Alert condition
Red = Abnormal condition

72. What lateral mode is non-selectable by the pilot?
A: TRACK – track hold

73. What does FPR stand for?
A: Flight Path Reference Angle

74. How is FPR different than FPA?
A: FPA is a selectable mode

75. If Autoland does not engage what is depicted on PFD FMA?
A: Appr 1 only in amber

76. When does half bank turn on when activated by EO mode?
A: When speed is 10 kts above

77. When does the automatic transition from ROLL to TRACK occur on takeoff?
A: When IAS is greater than 100 kts and bank angle less than 3° for more than 10 seconds.

78. When is the Windshear system active?
A: Above 10’ and Below 1500’ AGL

79. How is a Windshear Caution different from a Windshear Warning?
A: Caution:
- associated with increasing headwinds and updrafts
- aural alert is “CAUTION WINDSHEAR”.
- provides guidance cue only if TOGA button pushed
Warning:
- associated with decreasing headwind (or increasing tailwind) and severe downdrafts
- aural alert is “WINDSHEAR, WINDSHEAR, WINDSHEAR”
- provides guidance cue regardless of pushing TOGA

80. How is the Windshear Guidance mode activated?
A: Windshear warning or caution detected and TOGA switch is pressed.
Windshear warning and thrust lever is set to TO/GA position.
Automatically when windshear warning condition and FD mode is TO or GA.

81. What does LIM annunciation on the FMA mean?
A: Vertical speed or Target speed are incompatible with thrust rating available.

82. Between what altitudes is Autoland armed/engaged?
A: Both radio altimeters indicating less than 1500’ and more than 800’.
At 1500’ RA - System starts trying to engage highest capability available.
At 800’ RA - System "freezes" highest capability available, no longer allowing approach "upgrades".

APU

83. What does the APU emergency stop button do?
A: Closes the APU shutoff valve, shutting off the APU with no cool down period.

84. What happens when the APU switch is selected to OFF?
A: Pneumatics are immediately removed and after a 1-minute cool down period the electrical power is
removed and the APU is shutdown.

85. The APU shall not be unattended for longer than how many minutes?
A: 5 minutes (M)

86. What is the normal fuel source for the APU?
A: The right wing tank.

87. Can the APU draw fuel from the left wing tank?
A: Yes, through the crossfeed valve.

88. What is the minimum battery temperature for APU starting?
A: -20°C

89.  If the battery temperature is less than -20°C, how can the APU be started?
A: DC GPU

90. What is the maximum altitude that the APU can supply electrical power?
A: 33,000’ (M)

91. What is the maximum altitude that the APU can supply bleed air for engine starting?
A: 21,000’

92. What is the maximum altitude that the APU can provide bleed air for air conditioning and pressurization?
A: 15,000’

93. What is the maximum altitude for APU start?
A: 30,000’ (M)

94. What conditions will cause the APU auto-shutdown in flight?
A: Overspeed, Underspeed, FADEC Critical Fault

95. What conditions will cause the APU to auto-shutdown on the ground?
A: Overspeed, Underspeed, FADEC Critical Fault, APU Fire, APU EGT Over Temp, APU High Oil Pressure,
Sensor Fail.

96. What will happen with an APU fire indication in flight?
A: Aural Warning, Master Warning, Red stripped bar on APU Emergency Stop illuminates, APU Fire EICAS
message.

97. What will happen with an APU fire indication on the ground?
A: Aural Warning, Master Warning, Red stripped bar on APU emergency Stop illuminates, APU Fire EICAS
message, APU will auto-shutdown 10 seconds after fire condition.

98. Is the APU Fire extinguisher automatic or manual?
A: Manual

99. When will the APU generator come online?
A: 95% + 3 seconds

100. Why is the APU Fire test on the Power Up checklist and not on the Originating Flow?
A: If held for more than 10 seconds it will shut down the APU

FIRE PROTECTION

101. What fire detection systems are checked when the Fire Detection Test Button is pressed?
A:  Fire detection systems:
- Engines
- APU
- Cargo Compartment

102. What does pulling the engine fire extinguisher handle do?
A: Closes these associated shutoff valves:
- engine bleed air
- fuel
- hydraulic
- Bonus:
-- crossbleed
-- wing anti-ice

103. How many engine fire bottles are installed?
A: 2 (shared)

104. Can both engine fire bottles be discharged into one engine?
A: Yes

105. When are the Engine Fire Bottles armed?
A: Whenever the HOT BATT Busses 1&2 powered.

106. How does the APU FADEC respond to an APU fire on the ground?
A: Automatically:
- shuts down the APU 10 seconds after fire is detected
- arms the fire extinguisher bottle

107. How is the APU fire extinguisher bottle discharged on the ground?
A: By manually pressing the APU FIRE EXTINGUISHING push button.

108. How many APU extinguisher bottles are installed?
A: 1

109. Will the APU shutdown if the Fire Detection Test Button is pressed?
A: Only if held for more than 10 seconds.

110. If a Cargo Compartment Smoke Warning message is displayed on the ground, how many times
must the Cargo Fire Extinguishing Button be pressed?
A: Twice, once for the High rate bottle and once for the low rate bottle.

111. Can fires in each of the cargo compartments be extinguished simultaneously?
A: No

112. How long will the low-rate bottle provide fire suppression?
A: 75 minutes

113. What happens when smoke is detected in a LAV?
A: Master Warning
LAV SMOKE EICAS message
Alarm sounds in the lavatory
Flashing amber light on the FA lights panel

114. How does the Lavatory fire extinguishing system work?
A: Automatically discharges when the temperature limit in the trash container is exceeded.

FLIGHT CONTROLS

115. What is the function of the PCUs?
A: Power Control Units are hydraulic actuators that control the respective flight control surfaces.

116. Which flight controls are NOT Fly-By Wire?
A: Ailerons.

117. How long are manual trim commands limited to?
A: 3 seconds

118. How are the Flaps powered?
A: AC Power

119. What does pushing the Flight Control Mode button do?
A: Places the associated flight system into Direct mode.

120. When is the Electrical PBIT performed?
A: Whenever AC power is applied.

121. How long does the Electrical PBIT take to complete?
A: 3 Minutes

122. Can the Electrical PBIT be interrupted?
A: Yes, by turning on a Hydraulic Pump

123. How is the Hydraulic PBIT initiated?
A: When all 3 Hydraulic systems are pressurized.

124. How long does the Hydraulic PBIT take to complete?
A: 1 Minute

125. Can the Hydraulic PBIT be interrupted?
A: Yes, if the flight control surface is moved while test is in progress.

126. What does the Fly-By Wire backup battery do?
A: Powers the Elevator and Rudder actuators for 15 minutes in case of complete loss of power to the FBW
system.

127. When will the ground spoilers retract after landing?
A: Wheel speed below 45 knots for 5 seconds.

128. Are the Ground Spoilers / Speed Brakes available in direct mode?
A: No

129. When will the speed brakes automatically retract in flight?
A: Flaps 2 or greater,
Airspeed below 180 KIAS,
TLA above 70 degrees.

130. What effect will a deployed RAT have on the slats and flaps?
A: They will operate at half speed.
Limited to flaps 3 for landing to ensure adequate airspeed for the RAT.

131. How are the flight controls powered during an electrical emergency while the RAT is being deployed?
A: Hydraulic 3 accumulator

132. What does the Takeoff Configuration warning monitor?
A: Flaps
Parking Brake
Pitch Trim
Spoilers

133. Will the ground spoilers deploy if the thrust levers are not at flight idle at touchdown?
A: No (unless thrust levers below 26 degrees)

ICE AND RAIN PROTECTION

134. Are all the wing leading edges heated?
A: No. The section between the fuselage and engine is not heated.

135. Can the APU provide bleed air for anti-icing?
A: No

136. Can one engine provide bleed anti-ice for both wings? How?
A: Yes, through the cross-bleed valve.

137. How long do the anti-ice valves remain open after leaving icing conditions?
A: 2 minutes

138. When is the ice detector activation inhibited?
A: Below 1700’ AGL or 2 minutes after liftoff.

139. How can we get engine/wing anti-ice below 1700’ after takeoff?
A: It must be setup on the T/O DATASET MENU in the MCDU.

140. If only one AC power source is available are both windshields heated?
A: No (only the captain’s unless it is inop)

141. What does the TIMER selection on the windshield do?
A: Activates associated wiper in 8 second intervals.

OXYGEN

142. What happens when you press the oxygen test/reset button with the mask stowed?
A: Tests the oxygen mask
Flow indicator star momentarily blinks
Oxygen flow is audible through audio system

143. How do you return to normal operation after oxygen mask use?
A: Ensure mask box door is closed
Press the test/reset button
(This stops oxygen flow and returns communication from cockpit speakers to the headsets)

144. What does the oxygen mask EMERG selection provide?
A: 100% oxygen under positive pressure.

145. Where is Crew O2 pressure displayed?
A: System status page on MFD.

146. What are minimum crew O2 values?
A: Green for three, blue for two, amber no dispatch.
(Values displayed are automatically temp compensated)

147. When do the passenger masks auto deploy?
A: Cabin altitude between 14,000 – 14,750 ft.

148. How long do the passenger masks provide oxygen?
A: 12 minutes.

149. What does the OVRD position of the MASK DEPLOY switch do?
A: Deploys the passenger oxygen masks regardless of cabin altitude.

FOM AND NORMAL PROCEDURES

150. When receiving an aircraft directly from another crew, must an originating checklist be completed?
A: Yes

151. What must the Captain’s pre-departure briefing to FAs cover?
A: Required items (FOM):
- Crew ID verification
- Turbulence
- Use of Anticipated Turbulence Procedure
- Weather
- pertinent MEL items
- Delays
Additional suggested items
- Sterile cockpit review
- Trip details
- Aircraft swaps/RON
- other items as deemed appropriate

152. When do the emergency systems and equipment on the flight deck have to be visually checked?
A: When the aircraft has been left unattended by the flight crew for any period of time.

153. Where are the ground reset procedures located?
A: AOM Volume 1 Section 3

154. Can a ground reset be accomplished without contacting maintenance control?
A: No

155. After successful completion of a ground reset, is a maintenance logbook entry required?
A: Yes, with an “information only” placed in the corrective action.

156. What is required to be checked during a review of the MTX Log?
A: (use this as a discussion item, FOM)
  1) Verify the correct Log is onboard (tail # matches).
  2) Verify number of pink pages in Log meets requirement (five).
  3) General review of all pages to understand the recent mechanical history of the aircraft.
  4) If there is an entry in the LOG ENTRY section, verify the following four fields are completed in the CORRECTIVE ACTION section:
  - CORRECTIVE ACTION text
  - SIGNATURE (Corrective Action)
  - EMP # or CERT # (non-QX)
  - DATE
  5) Verify all fields in the LOG ENTRY and CORRECTIVE ACTION sections are completed and boxes are marked. If there are any Incomplete fields/boxes or there is a question about a field in these two sections, the Captain shall contact Maintenance Control for resolution prior to departure.
  NOTE: The PHASE OF FLIGHT and EVENT CATEGORY sections are not regulatory and are for Horizon Air reliability data collection; therefore; resolution for unmarked boxes in these two sections is not required prior to departure.
  - The MAINTENANCE ONLY section is exempt from this review and resolution process
  - Confirm MEL/CDL items on the Dispatch Release matches the MEL/CDL items and effective dates in the Log.
  6) Comply with any MELs/CDLs operational restrictions or conditions.
  (FOM 11.3.5)

157. Is it OK to complete a rudder check with nose wheel steering off, but with the tug still attached to the aircraft?
A: No

158. The aircraft must be configured for landing prior to what point?
A: 1,000 AFE
("Called for" and "selected", per Sep 15, 2024 TIRD notes, AOM 1, and FOM)

159. What is our definition of a stabilized approach?
A: (FOM)
At 1000’ AFE and below:
- Final landing configuration selected.
    If IMC, no more than:
- Course deviation of one dot or less
- Glidepath deviation of one dot or less
At 500’ RA and below 500 AFE (No RA)
  - VAPP + 10/-5 KTS
  -  15° bank or what is required to follow RF leg

If VMC, no more than:
- Course deviation of one dot or less
- Glidepath deviations of one dot or less
If no electronic GP is available on extended runway centerline or published path, if appropriate, and on VGSI , if available, a rate of descent of no more than 1000 FPM.

At 200’ RA or below or 200 AFE (RA INOP)
 If the aircraft does not meet stabilized parameters or the ability to make a safe landing is in doubt a missed approach shall be conducted.

160. Are First Officers with less than 100 hours in type in company aircraft prohibited from making takeoffs and landings at special airports?
A: Yes. (FOM)

161. (Aside from special airports), what other conditions restrict First Officers with less than 100 hours from making the takeoff or landing?
A: Contaminated runway
Braking action less than “good”/RWY CC4 or less
Crosswind greater than 15 knots
Windshear reported in the vicinity of the airport
Visibility less than 4000 RVR or ¾ mile
Any other condition the Captain deems appropriate.
Also landings only with runways less than 7000’ with First Officer with less than 500 hours

162. Where can a list of Special Airports be found?
A: FOM and AIC

163. How does Captain certify that Special Airport Qualification has been accomplished?
A: The Captain’s signature on the Dispatch Release indicates compliance. (FOM)

164. What does the term “lockdown” mean in association with the Threat Levels listed in the Ops Manual?
A: Closure of the Flight Deck door and suspension of all entry and exit through it. (FOM)

165. If a liquid is found on board the aircraft that is considered suspicious where is the threat level guidance found?
A: In the FOM.

166. If a FRA is not specified, at what altitude AFE should flaps be retracted?
A: 1000’ AFE.

167. What is the Horizon Air “Use of Alcohol” policy?
A: Not consume alcohol:
- on same calendar day, or
- during the 10-hour period immediately before scheduled to fly, stand reserve, or perform company related duties. (FOM)

168. What should you do if fellow pilot is too fatigued to fly but does not remove themselves from duty?
A: Contact Flight Operations Duty Officer before proceeding. (FOM)

169. What do you do if you lose your Airman Certificate or Medical while on a trip?
A: FAA website. If time critical, contact Crew Scheduling Services. (FOM

170. What is our policy regarding Scuba diving?
A: Pilots shall not participate in scuba diving within 24 hours of reporting for duty. (FOM)

171. What is our policy regarding Blood donation?
A: Pilots shall not donate blood within 72 hours of reporting for duty. (FOM)

172. Who is responsible for ensuring checklists are properly complied with for all operations?
A: Captain (FOM)

173. Is single-pilot taxi permitted?
A: No (FOM)

174. Under what condition is the use of headset communication NOT mandatory between the Captain and the tug operator?
A: The ramp interphone system is inoperative on the aircraft, or
If lightning is within 5 NM of the airport. (FOM)

175. Under what condition must the interphone system between the flight deck and ground be operative for pushback?
A: When Low-Visibility Conditions are in effect.(FOM)

176. Headsets and boom mics shall be used for all flight operations below what altitude?
A: Below FL180. (FOM)

177. Is it OK to read publications not related to the proper conduct of the flight on the flightdeck?
A: No (FOM)

178. What is the appropriate response to a TCAS TA?
A: Attempt to visually acquire traffic. (FOM)

179. Can First Officers report traffic in sight to ATC when Captain is still trying to locate the traffic?
A: No. Whenever possible, both pilots shall have the reported traffic in sight prior to advising ATC.
It is the Captain’s decision as to when traffic shall be reported in sight. (FOM)

180. What if any communication is required when changing nav sources?
A: State the change to other crewmember “number one nav on FMS”. (FOM)

181. Define Critical Phase of Flight
A: Takeoff:
- beginning with brake release and
- ending when the A/C is brought to a full stop during a rejected T/O, or
- when the A/C is:
-- at acceleration height and
-- clearance of all obstacles in the takeoff path is assured,
-- landing gear and flaps have been retracted, and
-- airspeed is a least Vfs.
Landing:
- beginning when landing gear is extended for landing and
- ending when the A/C lands and
-- is brought to a full stop or
-- taxied clear of the landing runway.
(FOM)

182. What is the maximum difference between the two primary altimeters crossing the FAF on an approach?
A: 100’ (FOM)

183. What is required if the difference between the two primary altimeters exceeds 100’ crossing the FAF?
A: Missed approach unless:
- visual reference to the runway environment has been established, and
- the aircraft is in a position to allow safe continuation to a landing. (FOM)

184. What are the RNP Track Deviation Limits?
A: Lateral - ± 1 dot
- momentary ± 2 deviations are allowable during and immediately after turns
Vertical - ± ½ dot during the final approach segment
- momentary vertical deviations up to 75’ (3/4 dot) above or below GP are allowable
Missed Approach shall be initiated if:
- Lateral deviation is at full scale and the conditions stated above are not met, or
- Vertical deviation during the final approach segment exceeds 75’ (3/4 dot).
Unless the visual references required to continue to the intended runway have been acquired. (FOM)

185. Who is the PM on the ground?
A: The First Officer (FOM)

186. How does proper transfer of aircraft control take place?
A: Notification – “My airplane” followed by:
Acknowledgment – “Your airplane.” (FOM)

187. When must shoulder harnesses be worn?
A: Takeoff and landing. (FOM)

188. What is the suggested operation of Pilot Controlled lighting?
A: Suggested use is to always click the mike seven times (within 5 seconds); this assures that all controlled lights are turned on to the maximum available intensity. (FOM)

189. With regard to Pilot-controlled lighting, how many minutes of lighting is available from last keying event?
A: 15 minutes (FOM)

190. What is the Runway Verification Procedure for takeoff?
A: Prior to crossing ANY runway hold short line, the
Captain and First Officer shall verbally verify:
The aircraft is cleared onto the runway
The runway is correct
The runway is clear of conflicts
Example – CA: “Cleared for takeoff, Rwy 10R, clear”
FO: "10R, clear"

191. What is the Runway Verification Procedure for landing?
A: Prior to landing:
- PF shall restate the landing clearance and runway after the PM acknowledges clearance from ATC.
- Both pilots observe the runway environment and verify (silently):
-- correct runway, and
-- runway clear of traffic. (FOM)
After Landing Checklist is complete:
- PM states landing clearance or query ATC if not given
At uncontrolled fields or fields where the tower is closed, prior to stating “Cleared to land”, ensure:
- intention to land is communicated on CTAF/UNICOM, and
- no landing or runway conflicts exist. (AOM1)

192. What are the iPad preflight requirements?
A: Prior to each flight day, each pilot shall determine:
- Company-issued IPAD is operable
- iPAD sufficiently charged to meet the needs of the scheduled flight day, at a minimum:
-- 30% to begin a flight segment
-- 75% to begin a duty day. (FOM)

193. How should the Captain proceed when the FA advises of a conflict regarding a differently-abled passenger?
A: The CRO shall be notified. (FOM)

194. When flying into an uncontrolled airport, what position reports should be made on CTAF?
A: Required reports:
- 10 miles out
- entering:
-- downwind
-- base
-- final
- Clearing the runway. (FOM)

195. When must FO update departure status to operations when flight departure is delayed?
A: If a flight is not anticipated to be airborne within 15 minutes of the OUT TIME, the First Officer shall contact the station and give a best estimate OFF TIME.
Update this estimate every 15 minutes. (FOM)

196. What is the minimum runway width?
A: Minimum runway width is 100’. 60’ clearing landing width in AK (CA landing only). (FOM)

197. How much fuel reserve is required if no alternate is listed on release?
A: 55 minutes at normal cruising fuel consumption. (FOM)

198. What is Minimum Required Fuel (REQ)?
A: REQ is the minimum fuel quantity to begin takeoff, which includes (FOM):
- ENR
- AL
- RE
- DL

199. Will ENR, AL, RE, and DL always equal MT?
A: Since BO, AF,RE, and CT are rounded tot eh nearest 100 pounds; they may not equal MT when added together. (FOM)

200. What if actual takeoff weight exceeds METW?
A: Contact dispatch to run a new METW calculation based on the higher weight. (FOM)

201. "Terrain Clearance" provides what clearance from terrain?
A: Clear terrain by 1000’ above all terrain along the planned route of flight. (FOM)

202. "Mountain Driftdown" provides what terrain clearance?
A: Clear terrain by 2000’ as if proceeds to the indicated airport. (FOM)

203. When does a dispatch release expire?
A: Air Turnback requires re-release.
Intermediate Airport after 60 minutes on ground. (FOM)

204. Is the Captain required to contact Dispatch if the takeoff is rejected after the takeoff clearance is received?
A: Yes. (FOM)

205. When is a takeoff alternate required?
A: If:
- reported departure weather is below landing minimums (Cat I minimums for E175), or
- if any other operational conditions exist at the departure airport that would preclude a return to that airport. (FOM)

206. When is a destination alternate required?
A: 1, 2, 3. + only one RWY in AK. (FOM)
- 1 hour before and after ETA
- 2000 foot ceiling or higher
- 3 SM visibility or more

207. How do you know if a pilot has less than 75 hours?
A: "J" qualification. (FOM)

208. Minimum crew onboard for through flight?
A: The number of flight attendants on board is at least half the number required for CFR 14 Part 121.391 but never less than one. (FOM)

209. When must pilots be at the aircraft?
A: Pilots shall arrive at the aircraft 30 minutes (40 min for Star Flight) before scheduled departure time.

210. When must pilots be on the flightdeck?
A: Pilots shall be on the flightdeck 20 minutes prior to scheduled departure time. (FOM)

211. Can you take an “other airline pilot” in the jump seat to Canada or Mexico?
A: No (FOM)

212. What are two things that a Captain is required to do following a Takeoff Abort?
A: The Captain shall contact dispatch and submit a PIR. (FOM)

213. Must the Flight Director be used on an RNAV-1 SID?
A: Yes, RNAV-1 SIDs require the use of the Flight Director. (FOM)

214. Below what altitude does EGPWS bank angle callouts require an immediate missed approach?
A: 500’ AFE

215. Established on the final approach segment, you receive a report that the weather is now below landing minimums, can you continue?
A: Yes, except Cat III Autoland (FOM)

216. Can you continue below DH?
A: Yes, if the required conditions are met.
Descent below DH utilizing the approach light system as the only visual reference is NOT authorized unless
a Captain Monitored or Autopilot coupled is being conducted.(FOM)

217. If planning a straight in visual approach at an uncontrolled airport, by what distance shall the aircraft be established on final?
A: 5 miles (FOM)

218. Can a visual approach be accepted 40nm out?
A: No, must be within 35nm. (FOM)

219. When flying an approach to an unfamiliar airport, what must you do?
A: Fly the entire instrument approach. (FOM)

220. Can you accept a LAHSO clearance?
A: Not in US. Yes, at certain airports in Canada if the required conditions are met. (FOM)

221. Can you pick up passengers or bags at an alternate airport?
A: No (FOM)

222. How many maintenance discrepancies may be entered on one logbook page?
A: Only one. (FOM)

223. How does Captain determine the airworthiness of the aircraft?
A: Reviewing the Aircraft Maintenance log,
Ensuring a preflight inspection has been accomplished (FOM)

224. On preflight, how can a pilot determine if an abnormality has been previously identified?
A: Previously identified damage is marked by maintenance with ¼“ yellow dots. (FOM)

225. Who places the A/C out of service (OTS) card over the power levers?
A: The Captain after entering a discrepancy in the logbook. (FOM)

226. Can you takeoff or land if the braking action is reported as Nil?
A: Takeoffs or landings are NOT authorized with braking action of Nil. (FOM)

227. When landing on a slippery runway, should you pump the brakes?
A: No. Apply brakes smoothly and symmetrically with moderate to firm pressure and hold until a safe taxi speed is assured. (FOM)

228. What is one step deicing procedure?
A: The one-step procedure involves deicing and anti-icing the aircraft in one step using Type I fluid. (FOM)

229. What is two step deicing procedure?
A: In the two-step procedure, deicing and anti-icing are accomplished in separate steps.
- first step: aircraft is deiced with Type I fluid
- second step: aircraft is anti-iced with either Type I or Type IV fluid. (FOM)

230. When does the holdover time start?
A: One-step – holdover time begins at the start of deicing and anti-icing the first critical surface.
Two-step – The holdover time begins at the start of the second step. (FOM)

231. How do you configure the aircraft for deicing?
A: Configuration Checklist (FOM)

232. What do you do if the holdover time expires before takeoff?
A: Pre-takeoff contamination check (FOM 13.5.4)
or Return to gate for deicing?

233. What does Captain’s signature on ferry permit signify?
A: The Captain’s signature on the ferry permit signifies a verbal briefing with the Maintenance Controller was accomplished and the Captain understands and concurs with Ferry Flight Permit restrictions and limitations. (FOM)

234. What does the following PA statement signal to the FAs? “Ladies and Gentlemen, this is the Captain speaking, may I have your attention?”
A: Indicates to the FAs that the PA is of an urgent nature. (FOM)

235. What does “land at nearest suitable airport” mean?
A: Land without delay at the nearest suitable airport with sufficient runway length and if required, emergency services to support the emergency or abnormality.
If possible, contact dispatch. (FOM)

236. What does “land as soon as practical” mean?
A: Proceed to the most appropriate Air Group-served airport at the discretion of the Captain
Considerations should be given to weather conditions, Maintenance services, and operational impact.
Should be coordinated though Dispatch (FOM)

237. What does “land immediately” mean?
A: Land immediately on any available runway. In a severe situation, the flight crew should consider an overweight landing, tailwind landing, off-airport landing, or ditching. (FOM)

238. What do you do if your fellow pilot becomes incapacitated?
A: Land at nearest suitable airport, while taking responsibilities of both pilots. (FOM 15.1.5)

239. Where can you find a list of mandatory PIR reportable items?
A: FOM

240. How is an Irregularity reported?
A: Via the Report it! App. (FOM)

241. When would you declare a minimum fuel advisory?
A: When the estimated fuel upon landing at the destination airport is less than 45 mins. (FOM)
- "If the Captain calculates that any change to existing clearance to the airport may result in landing with less than 45 minutes of reserve fuel, the Captain shall declare a minimum fuel advisory as described below..."
- "The Captain shall advise ATC of minimum fuel status when fuel supply is such that, upon reaching the destination, the flight cannot accept any undue delay."

242. When would you declare emergency due to low fuel?
A: When the estimated fuel upon landing at the nearest suitable airport will be less than 45 mins. (FOM)

243. Where are ARINC frequencies located?
A: Mobile 365 and Jeppesen Enroute section.

244. In the event of a medical diversion, are you required to declare an emergency?
A: Yes. (FOM)

245. If pilot receives a Bomb threat, who should pilot notify?
A: The pilot shall immediately notify ATC and Dispatcher. (FOM)

246. What steps should be taken if an unexplained substance is found in the cabin during flight?
A: The Captain shall secure the flightdeck and contact Dispatch. (FOM)

247. What is the Hijacking transponder code?
A: 7500. (FOM)

248. What is the speed limit in Canada within 10 miles of the airport below 3000’ AGL?
A: 200 KIAS. (FOM)

249. Can you taxi across illuminated stop bars if you have a clearance?
A: No. (FOM)

250. After taxiing across extinguished stop bars, if the lead on lights extinguish, what should you do?
A: Stop, query ATC. (FOM)

251. What do you do if a prohibited item is discovered on the aircraft?
A: Captain and GSC shall:
- jointly determine if the item is prohibited
- shall avoid disturbing the item, contaminating it with fingerprints, etc.
- If the item is prohibited, the Captain shall contact the Duty Officer through Dispatch. (FOM)

252. In the NTSBR briefing what does the (T) stand for.
A: Type of cabin prep “ Prepare the cabin for a Normal Landing ( Emergency Landing) and how much time (minutes) to land.
